**COVID-19 Tracking System**
========================

**Technology Selection**
------------------------

**Spring boot - 2.3.0.RELEASE -**

Covid-19 Tracker is based on Spring Boot which makes it easy to create stand-alone, production-grade applications that you can “just run”. Spring boot is a module that provides rapid application development feature to the spring framework including auto-configuration, standalone-code, and production-ready code

**JDK - 1.8 -**

I created Covid-19 Tracker web application using Java 8. In many cases, Java 8 will improve application performance without any specific work or tuning. Lambda expressions, the Streams API, and new methods on existing classes are some of the key productivity improvements.

**H2 Database -**

To connect with the database, use the H2 database for Covid-19 Tracker. I store the data in a file system. Here persistence happens on file systems using H2 Embedded Database. H2 is an open-source relational database management system written in Java. It can be embedded in Java applications or run in client-server mode.It is popularly known as in-memory database. H2 can be easily used with Spring Boot. When Spring Boot detects H2 in the POM file, it automatically configures an in-memory H2 database for the application.

**Spring Data JPA -**

Data access is implemented using Spring Data JPA which makes easy data operations in a Java application

**Bootstrap -**

Bootstrap is a framework to help you design websites faster and easier. It includes HTML and CSS based design templates for typography, forms, buttons, tables, navigation, modals, image carousels, etc. I used Bootstrap because it is responsive CSS adjusts to phones, tablets, and desktops and it is compatible with all modern browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, and Opera)

**Thymeleaf -**

Thymeleaf is a Java-based library used to create a web application. It provides good support for serving XHTML/HTML5 in web applications.

**REST -**

A RESTFul application follows the REST architectural style, which is used for designing networked applications. RESTful applications generate HTTP requests which perform CRUD (Create / Read / Update / Delete) operations on resources.

**Maven -**

Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (project object model). It is used for projects build, dependency and documentation. It simplifies the build process . Quick project setup, no complicated build.xml files, just a POM and go

**Swagger -**

REST api documentation generated by Swagger annotations

**Build and Run Locally**
-----------------------------

**Run locally**

Build covid19-tracker from a terminal or console :

    cd covid19-tracker

Build using Maven :

    Linux   -  ./mvnw clean package
    Windows -  mvnw.cmd clean install

Start covid19-tracker :

    Linux   -  ./mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run
    Windows -  mvnw.cmd spring-boot:run


Once the terminal or console displays that covid19-tracker is Started Covid19TrackerApplication and ready to be used.

Open a browser and type url http://localhost:8080

Swagger UI - **http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html#/**

**Configurations**
-------------------


**Access H2 Database Console**

Start the spring boot application and access the console in browser with URL :http://localhost:8080/h2 and
now enter the configured username as 'covid' and password should be empty.

http://localhost:8080/h2-console

User - covid

JDBC URL - jdbc:h2:file:./data/tracker


You can verify the table structure and default data inserted through SQL files.



**Cron Job Configurations**


This is used to retrieve the latest data from Government API.
Currently, it is configured to run once an hour. You can change it from application properties. 
